Okay
now we're going to discuss building the model what I'll do is I'll discuss revenue down here you see
this tab revenues the most important thing you can build from model because when you forecast the future
in all financial models almost every single line item is a percent of revenue and so modeling is really
easy once you're done with revenue so spend most of your time focused on revenue.
And then what we'll do is I'll discuss the income statement how I built it then the balance sheet and
the cash flow statement and we're big.
Ignore these for now.
Those are valuation metrics.
Let's go through the the model first.
Okay.
So let's kick it off with the revenue tab here.
And as you can see the revenue tab all feeds into the income statement.
Okay.
So the top line on the income statement here.
Right.
That's why they called the top line the top line revenue.
This is actually from this statement here.
Okay.
So we all know there's three different revenue line items for a Linked In.
Remember we did the total addressable market analysis.
So what we're going to do is we're in a look at how to get all the data in here and it's actually pretty
simple because it's all available on that downloadable document we got directly from Lincoln's Web site
.
Or you could hard code it means type it in manually from all the previous press releases and 10-K and
10-Q filings from sec dot gov.
But that will take a lot of time.
So we put in all of our data right.
And again anything Blue is something we hardcoded in meaning it's not a formula that is a formula that
is not.
Let me just go up here and let you see the formula bar.
Okay good.
Great.
Yes so see here this is hard coded.
This is not that's actually a formula out there ya.
Okay.
All right.
So total revenue is quite simply the addition of these three revenue line items right.
LinkedIn has three major revenue line items and we have to answer it all is historical information and
then forecast it next session I'll talk to you about forecasting not this one.
OK so let's take a look at what or how we built tellt solutions right and this is basically Remember
human resource departments using this product.
And so I try to make it as simple as possible and we can drill down and add additional complexity.
And again keep it simple and build on top of it otherwise it gets a little bit overwhelming for for
us and you could always add lots of comments here.
Right.
Especially if you work in big teams had a lot of comments.
Just remember why you entered certain data.
Okay.
In all this information is available from LinkedIn.
We've got the total new customers in the quarter or the financial year this quarter that's a year.
We got the average number of customers a year over year change revenue per customer.
That sort of thing and you'll see right here this is a new line item where there's not that much data
and this is because LinkedIn actually purchased a company called Linda dot com and it's part of the
talent solutions that.
And so we really want to document this here because we want to figure what the real growth rate going
forward is for linked in meaning the organic growth rate not growth they purchased.
OK.
So we have all these line items here and again this is hardcoded directly from from LinkedIn.
So we have all this material member that gave us the geographic information as well which we got at
the bottom of the the press release which we saw in previous section.
Okay great.
So this is one line item and let's just close that out here and now just look at marketing solutions
.
And we'll click on this plus for more details.
And you can get a heck of a lot more details here on marketing solutions which is awesome you get from
the company and their quarterly earnings press releases the number of unique visitors that they get
but 100 million here the mobile unique visitors mobile is the new desktop is very important.
Then you get member page views and this is in the billions.
Wow.
It's a lot of pastries and then sponsored update to the marketing that sort of thing.
And they provide again all this information.
I know it seems like a lot and sometimes I'll just enter in all this information and I don't know how
to use it today but in a future quarter or year I'll look back and analyze the data and build on it
and build on a case that's marketing solutions.
When we scroll back to the top here and the last line item here is Priem solutions and this is the one
where you pay the monthly fee of 29 bucks or more actually.
And that gets you a number of Ishmael's and you could pay more in 29 bucks per month if you want more
than a couple of e-mails.
OK.
So this is hardcoded which is why it's blue and we always track a couple things.
The year over year change in the percentage of revenue so when you and I go to Linked In and we pay
for the Priem subscriptions we could send in mails.
That's actually a small percentage of the business.
In fact in calendar 2015 that was only seventeen point eight percent of revenue.
The big revenue driver is the H.R. department product here talent solutions which most of us don't know
about because we're not all in H.R..
OK let's click plus here to see how we built out Priem solutions or at least get more detail on it.
Right.
It was a lot of information here.
So basically this gives you a breakdown of all the product all the information that goes directly into
that premium subscription revenue line.
Okay.
And I know it seems like a lot but we build on it slowly so that we understand it slowly over time and
again this is from the bottom of the press release . Remember. They gave the additional information
which is geographic breakdown and I'm not using this data but heck I answered all of it in any way so
I can analyze that.
You know if one day if there's a problem of growth slowing materially in one area is it because the
U.S. is slow or international or whatever that sort of thing.
So let me close that out.
So there you have it.
Those are the three revenue line items.
And we can go into a lot more detail on how to build those out as well.
And so down here I wrote click.
Plus the plus for more data from the earnings press release.
So this is additional stuff.
I don't know where to put this.
I know if I should make this a part of the previous three revenue line items are separate.
And so we've got remember revenue by field sales and online sales and this basically means a quota carrying
sales rep that works at LinkedIn.
And this is somebody that does just online sales like tell us sales versus in-person meetings and it
looks like Field Sales is a lot bigger than online sales.
Okay.
And then we've got revenue by geography for all of revenue not just three revenue line items we saw
above.
Right and we can go through this information looks like revenue from the United States growth is 36
percent year over year for Q4 of last calendar year Amia which is Europe Middle East it's 34 percent
.
And then a pack which is Asia and other regions is 29 percent.
And you could also look at quarterly change.
Remember business is seasonal usually so different quarters usually make more revenue than others and
then we got headcount here as well.
And we just hard code that in again that's blue.
So it's hard coded and we can look at year over year is linked in hiring too much or too little whatever
that sort of thing.
Wow look at that like they hired 40 percent more people while a company is growing fast and we can actually
look at revenue growth every year and we could see does that make sense.
Wow.
Revenue growth this 34 percent year over year but headcount growth was 40 percent.
That's that's seems kind of odd or misaligned or or maybe not who knows.
But anyway it's just something to keep an eye on.
And you can see headcount by the vision too.
This is awesome.
I love it when a company gives a lot of information a lot of disclosure.
Sales and Marketing we have.
Wow.
OK so a 38 percent increase in sales and marketing folks.
It looks like they're up increasing the head count for product development a little bit last that sort
of thing and so you can see that there's just a wealth of information provided by LinkedIn for investors
here which is fantastic transparency builds trust.
We're not going to use all of it but we have a bunch of it in our model in case we want to use in the
future.
OK good.
So we just looked at the revenue tab.
Right.
And you want to spend a lot of time again on Rabbenu more time than on any other portion of the financial
statement because revenue basically every other line item becomes a percentage of revenue which I'll
show you here in the income statement.
OK let's move on to income statement now.
All right.
So dinkum statement is pretty straightforward.
And again we get all this information on a quarterly basis from the company when they issue their quarterly
numbers.
And you can see here our quarterly numbers now I'm adding a little bit more complexity for you here
.
OK so green means it came from another tab see that and that's that's a best practice when you model
blue is hard coded meaning there's no formless here but there is formas for everything else.
So the green is from another tab.
This is from the revenue tab right here.
Okay great.
So from the earnings press release we hardcoded in the cost to get sold we put in sales and marketing
product development.
Ne That's general administrative and depreciation right.
We hardcoded all that information and then this is just an addition of all the expenses.
And here we go.
This is income minus all those expenses it's negative here and we haven't even gotten to interests in
taxes yet.
And so what I like to do though is here's Ebbitt.
Okay.
That's earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization.
And this is what's called adjusted Ebbitt.
And remember before I said there was Gap and non-GAAP.
Well I love to look at non-GAAP as a financial analyst account SLUB to look at.
And this is called adjusted EBITDA and it's adjusted because it subtracts stuff that's noncash.
Like when we depreciate a building.
Right.
That's not a cash expense.
It's just an accounting entry and there's many reasons why that exists and it's good because that means
you pay less taxes because you have higher expenses.
But I want to get rid of that because it's a non-cash expense for now and if you have any additional
questions on this just you know semi messes directly or include it in the Q&A portion of this course
.
Thanks.
OK so we have adjusted Ebbitt which is important and I'll show you why in a minute or so.
And then we've got other income and then we've got our loss and provision for income tax because right
here and then what happens is you get down to your earnings per share and the non-GAAP Clunes per share
is what I care about.
It looks like they made 94 cents last quarter that's the fourth quarter of 2015.
But on a gap basis meaning if we include all the stuff like depreciation and amortization and the non
non-cash stuff they lost money.
I like this slide better because it includes you know basically mainly the non cash items and the items
that quite frankly I can model that are repeatable longer term.
So if there is a one off one event like a big litigation expense one quarter that's not going to be
ongoing that's going to be in gap but not non-GAAP because non-GAAP is just stuff that's ongoing it's
always easier to analyze that.
And so there you go.
This is the this is the income statement and so earnings per share is here and revenue is right at the
top.
And we talked about the expenses in between.
It's really important to monitor the year over year growth for every line item as well as the percentage
of revenue.
And I'll explain why next section when we do the forecasting in the future we need to look at historical
trends see here trend is a trend as well.
So we can predict the future.
Okay.
So we're done with the income statement for now and again here is where we forecast stuff which we'll
do next next section.
So let's take a quick peek here at the balance sheet and similar to the income statement we have all
the quarterly numbers here and blue means hardcoded right.
And you know we've got the assets liabilities into total liabilities plus all those equity and we know
that the shareholder's equity plus liabilities has equal assets.
Right and that's our sanity check to see if we are right here.
Right.
So make sure that this this dude here.
That's total assets is equal to liabilities plus equity which it is here.
Great.
Sorry.
But to keep doing that.
Ok cool.
And lastly let's look at the cash flow statement.
And like I said before the cash flow statement we'll be able to tell you where the income statement
is misleading because not everything is a cash item.
And so the cash flow statement starts with you take you take the gap not the I get the Gatun gap net
income and then you add back all the stuff that's non-cash write depreciation is not cash like we have
to give money to anybody and we depreciate stock based compensation we give when we give equity to employees
.
We're not we're not giving them cash we're just kind of creating more shares and other stuff here that's
noncash and that gives you a adjusted net income.
And then what happens eventually is you add back some of the changes in working capital from the balance
sheet.
Right.
And so if you have a big increase or decrease in accounts receivable that can increase cash or decrease
cash.
And so there we go.
We've got net cash from operating activities and then here it looks like we purchased a bunch of equipment
and so we have to deduct that.
And that's called net cash for investing and then financing as well.
You know if we got a loan or whatnot we could make that change here.
And then what happens is you get the net increase or decrease in cash by adding those three line items
together.
Net cash from opera activities investing and in financing activities.
And then you've got the cash at the beginning of the year and then cash at the end of the year and this
is going to be that the cash from last year or last quarter I'm sorry for the balance sheet and this
quarter from the balance sheet.
This is from being the year on the balance sheet.
And then.
Okay.
And then we calculate free cash flow and free cash flow is just cash from operating activities.
Right.
And then you can deduct the cap ex.
So it's basically cash flow from operating activities minus CapEx is free cash flow and we're taking
note of these line items here.
Free Cash flux that's going to be later into our evaluation which I'll discuss later on.
Okay so that does it for the financials and how we create.
Again you get all this information directly from the company's Web site linked Web site or whatever
company you're analyzing or you can go to SCC and go to the 10 Cayne 10-Q and manually hard code.
All that information